--- Syntax items ---
cCustomFunc    xxx match /\w\+\s*\((\)\@=/
                   links to Function
cCustomClass   xxx match /\w\+\s*\(::\)\@=/
                   links to Function
pythonStatement xxx return True lambda
                   nextgroup=pythonFunction  skipwhite def
                   del
                   nextgroup=pythonFunction  skipwhite class
                   global nonlocal as None, False, yield with print continue break pass assert exec
                   links to Statement
pythonFunction xxx match /\%(\%(def\s\|class\s\|@\)\s*\)\@<=\h\%(\w\|\.\)*/  contained
                   links to Function
pythonConditional xxx if else elif
                   links to Conditional
pythonRepeat   xxx for while
                   links to Repeat
pythonOperator xxx or is and in not
                   links to Operator
pythonException xxx finally raise except try
                   links to Exception
pythonInclude  xxx from import
                   links to Include
pythonDecorator xxx match /@/  display nextgroup=pythonFunction skipwhite
                   links to Define
pythonTodo     xxx contained NOTE XXX TODO NOTES FIXME
                   links to Todo
pythonComment  xxx match /#.*$/  contains=pythonTodo,@Spell
                   links to Comment
pythonEscape   xxx match /\\[abfnrtv'"\\]/  contained
                   match /\\\o\{1,3}/  contained
                   match /\\x\x\{2}/  contained
                   match /\%(\\u\x\{4}\|\\U\x\{8}\)/  contained
                   match /\\N{\a\+\%(\s\a\+\)*}/  contained
                   match /\\$/
                   links to Special
pythonString   xxx start=/[uU]\=\z(['"]\)/ skip=/\\\\\|\\\z1/ end=/\z1/  contains=pythonEscape,@Spell
                   start=/[uU]\=\z('''\|"""\)/ end=/\z1/  keepend contains=pythonEscape,pythonSpaceError,pythonDoctest,@Spell
                   links to String
pythonDoctest  xxx start=/^\s*>>>\s/ end=/^\s*$/  contained contains=ALLBUT,pythonDoctest,@Spell
                   links to Special
pythonRawString xxx start=/[uU]\=[rR]\z(['"]\)/ skip=/\\\\\|\\\z1/ end=/\z1/  contains=@Spell
                   start=/[uU]\=[rR]\z('''\|"""\)/ end=/\z1/  keepend contains=pythonSpaceError,pythonDoctest,@Spell
                   links to String
pythonNumber   xxx match /\<0[oO]\=\o\+[Ll]\=\>/
                   match /\<0[xX]\x\+[Ll]\=\>/
                   match /\<0[bB][01]\+[Ll]\=\>/
                   match /\<\%([1-9]\d*\|0\)[Ll]\=\>/
                   match /\<\d\+[jJ]\>/
                   match /\<\d\+[eE][+-]\=\d\+[jJ]\=\>/
                   match /\<\d\+\.\%([eE][+-]\=\d\+\)\=[jJ]\=\%(\W\|$\)\@=/
                   match /\%(^\|\W\)\@<=\d*\.\d\+\%([eE][+-]\=\d\+\)\=[jJ]\=\>/
                   links to Number
pythonBuiltin  xxx list locals all classmethod None abs cmp reduce ord hex object memoryview enumerate __debug__ compile str False True issubclass input hasattr frozenset slice callable sum filter range any long execfile min type sorted reload super complex xrange file ascii setattr unicode staticmethod basestring unichr float iter map globals max isinstance dict chr reversed buffer delattr __import__ oct dir eval raw_input hash getattr tuple id bin vars apply bytes repr pow print zip open NotImplemented intern round format bool help property coerce Ellipsis len int next exec set bytearray divmod
                   links to Function
pythonExceptions xxx OSError EnvironmentError UserWarning NameError ArithmeticError NotImplementedError ReferenceError BaseException LookupError ImportWarning OverflowError SystemExit IndentationError GeneratorExit Warning RuntimeError MemoryError WindowsError AssertionError UnicodeWarning KeyError TypeError TabError ImportError SyntaxWarning SyntaxError UnboundLocalError KeyboardInterrupt UnicodeDecodeError IOError Exception FutureWarning AttributeError UnicodeTranslateError VMSError EOFError FloatingPointError ValueError IndexError RuntimeWarning DeprecationWarning PendingDeprecationWarning UnicodeEncodeError StopIteration UnicodeError BytesWarning StandardError SystemError ZeroDivisionError BufferError
                   links to Structure
pythonDoctestValue xxx start=/^\s*\%(>>>\s\|\.\.\.\s\|"""\|'''\)\@!\S\+/ end=/$/  contained
                   links to Define
OperatorChars  xxx match #?\|+\|-\|\*\|;\|:\|,\|<\|>\|&\||\|!\|\~\|%\|=\|)\|(\|{\|}\|\.\|\[\|\]\|/\(/\|*\)\@!#
Spell          cluster=NONE
NoSpell        cluster=NONE

